Nicole Cranon
CS 3800-Web APIs, Spring 2015
Assignment One
SOAP Endpoint Using a WSDL

Part II - SOAP Endpoint using a WSDL
http://www.webservicex.net/geoipservice.asmx?wsdl

Request Headers:
POST http://www.webservicex.net/geoipservice.asmx HTTP/1.1

The first line of the request indicates the type of http request we are attempting and against which server we are making that request and the http version of the user request. Here we are attempting a POST to http://www.webservicex.net/geoipservice.asmx the version of http request is HTTP/1.1.

Accept-Encoding: gzip,deflate

This header is used to indicate the type of content encoding the user agent accepts. Here my system is anticipating gzip or deflate encoded content.


Content-Type: application/soap+xml;charset=UTF-8;action="http://www.webservicex.net/GetGeoIP"

The Content-Type header indicates the type of content contained in the body of a request. Here the content that we are POSTing is of SOAP/XML application, UTF-8 encoded, and the specific application requested for the POST is the GetGeoIP.

Content-Length: 297

The Content-Length is used to indicate the length of the body of the request. Here the body of our request is 297 Octets.

Host: www.webservicex.net

The header Host indicates the name of the server to which we are making our HTTP request, here WebServiceX is the host.

Connection: Keep-Alive

The Connection header indicated certain desired qualities of the attempted connection. Here the option is set to Keep-Alive meaning keep the connection alive until the user agent has terminated. This is to save the time of creating a new connection for every HTTP request.

User-Agent: Apache-HttpClient/4.1.1 (java 1.5)

User-Agent indicates the type of user system making the request. In this case it is Apache-HttpClient/4.1.1 (java 1.5).


Response Headers:
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

The first line of the response contains the type of response and a status of the response. Here the type of http request is HTTP/1.1 and the status is 200 meaning a successful request.

Cache-Control: private, max-age=0

This header is used to provide directives that must be obeyed by all caching mechanisms. In this case the options private, max-age=0, must-revalidate and no-transform are applied. The private option means that the response cannot be cached in a shared cache; the max-age means that the response is not stale; the must-revalidate means that the cached version of a response may not be used after the expiration date; the no-transform means that no intermediate cache or proxies may change the header.

Content-Length: 515

This header is used to indicate the size of the body of the response, represented in Octets. In this case the response body size is 515.

Content-Type: application/soap+xml; charset=utf-8

The Content-Type header indicates the type of content contained in the body of a response. Here the response contains a SOAP/XML application UTF-8 encoded.

Server: Microsoft-IIS/7.0

The Server header indicates the type of software run by the origin server. The server responding to this request is using Microsid-IIS/7.0.

X-AspNet-Version: 4.0.30319

This header indicates the type of ASP.NET version run by the origin server.

X-Powered-By: ASP.NET

This header indicates more of the type of software run by the origin server. Here ASP.NET.

Date: Sun, 08 Feb 2015 19:40:49 GMT

The Date header indicates when the request was originated, February 08 2015, at 19:40:49 GMT.
